Here we go, Commandos! Charge!
[battling grunts]
Mystvearn: Well, well.
Lon Beruk.
I'm surprised to see you here.
Lon Beruk: And I'm surprised
to hear you flapping
your mouth, Mystvearn.
There's no point
in clamming up now.
After all,
it's not as if I haven't
already heard your voice...
Unless, of course, there's a
reason for you to conceal it.
Has Vearn ordered
your silence?
But you know,
I seem to remember
that it's quite difficult
for you to disobey him.
[enraged roar]
And here we are again.
Just like the
old days, isn't it?
How many decades
has it been by now?
Time moves so quickly.
Mystvearn: It was
nearly a century ago...
In the banquet hall of
the Dark King's Seventh
Palace of the Underworld.
You seem troubled.
Something the matter?
I'm leaving.
Mystvearn: [surprised gasp]
Lon Beruk: In fact,
I should never have
come here in the first place.
Just a moment.
Lon Beruk. I do
hope you understand
that I hold you
in the highest regard.
If I had my way,
you would stay here
and serve me permanently.
This Staff of Edacity
you have forged...
It's truly the greatest
weapon in my arsenal,
Your other designs
are magnificent, too.
By wielding
such a masterpiece,
I will be unstoppable.
Lon Beruk: Well, you see,
that's exactly what has
led me to this decision.
My work is driven
by the desire
to build the
ultimate weapon...
and if I've already
created my masterpiece,
why should I continue?
I must. It will not end.
Say I challenged you to
outdo yourself. Could you?
The task is done.
You may be the most powerful
being in the Underworld,
and for now you may
be unstoppable...
but you will never
take my freedom.
A rather bold claim.
However, I can sense that
you are worthy of saying so.
You don't hide your strength
as well as you think.
Oh, come now. It's clear.
Only a talented swordsman
could create such
impressive weapons.
You only work
as a weaponsmith...
to keep such ability
a secret, do you not?
To be blunt, now that I
possess the Staff of Edacity,
the only thing I
really want you for
is your skill with a blade.
Vearn: This
impenetrable darkness
has filled our skies
for long enough.
The battle to free our realm
from its wretched
clutches is approaching.
For a swift victory,
I wish to have as many
powerful servants as possible.
I'm offering you
a commanding position
over my army once
it's been gathered.
How does that sound?
I'm not interested.
Farewell, Dark King.
Vearn: Calm yourself.
If we push, he'll lash out.
He knows very well that
he cannot defeat me in combat,
and yet he still has no fear.
If we destroy him...
it would be quite a waste.
But Darklings live
for a very long time.
Perhaps he will
change his mind.
Lon Beruk: I can sense
you're out for blood.
Is that King Vearn's will...
Or is that your own?
Mystvearn [thought]:
W-Why wouldn't he dodge?
I know I've insulted
your king's generosity...
And that's the only
reason I allowed you
to land this one blow.
I may be willing
to wear this wound
as my punishment, but...
Hear this: if you decide
to strike me again,
I'm not going to hold back.
Mystvearn [thought]: He
refused the Dark King's offer
because he wasn't willing
to sacrifice his freedom.
So why would he side with
Dai and the humans now?
Don't forget - you only
get one chance, Mystvearn.
Mystvearn [thought]:
Such speed!
[roaring]
I see.
So the Purification Spell
requires all five Disciples.
Hyunckel, wait.
Where are you going?
I'm gonna take
down Mystvearn.
He's not just going to let you
cast Kaglimmer now, is he?
Leona: But we need you here...
What you need is time.
And if I can hold him off,
then at least...
Is that Mystvearn?
He's fighting Lon Beruk!
He's really on our side?
Mystvearn: [growling]
[struggling grunts]
It looks like... they're
evenly matched in combat?
Well, I mean,
he did singlehandedly win
against the both of us.
Hey! Everyone-
this is our chance.
Let's get this over with.
He's right.
We should cast the spell before
the others run out of steam.
Then here we go.
Put me down! Why, you...
Take this! And that!
Chiu: Well, look who it is!
All right.
Welcome back, big guy!
Princess Leona
told me the plan.
I'll help you clear
out this riffraff
while the Disciples
cast their spell.
Listen up, troops!
Our pal Crocodine here is
the former king of the beasts.
So everybody give
him a proper salute.
Crocodine [thought]: You've
gotta be kidding me...
Did I get replaced by a mouse?
Oh! While you were kidnapped,
Lon Beruk made something
special for you.
Did he?
Crocodine, to unleash that
axe's power, give it a swing
and call out
"Howling Inferno!"
Right. Howling Inferno!
Crocodine: Whoa! Not bad.
Baduck: Powerful, huh?
Lon calls it the Great Axe.
It's one of a kind!
Awesome.
There are two commands.
"Inferno" unleashes
a Frizz-type attack,
and "Detonation" is meant
to fire a Bang-type one.
Now, try out the other move!
Howl Detonation!
Chiu: Nice shot!
"Great Axe," indeed.
It's like having my
very own Avan Strash.
[screeching]
Ah, Garuda. There you are.
Old man? You can
take it easy now.
Oh? Good.
I was due for my
afternoon nap, anyway.
As if! I'm only
getting started here.
Frizzle!
It looks like the five
of them are almost ready.
Amy?
This platform is sitting
directly underneath
Vearn Palace, see?
It's the perfect
place to conjure
the circle of enchantment.
Okay.
Now, everyone
stand in a pentagon
and have your Insignia of
Avan at the ready.
Hyunckel: Amy?
I wanted to return
your Dark Armor Spear.
Lon Beruk fixed it.
It still looks the same,
but he says that
its attack and defense
power will be much stronger.
But, Amy... I thought
you said you took it
because you didn't
want me to fight anymore.
But I don't want
you to die, either.
After all, I know you would
still fight without it.
So then fight...
and live. Okay?
Hyunckel: Amdo!
While I was locked away,
I remembered what
you said to me.
Huh?
Hyunckel: You looked
me in the eye and told me
to stop walking into
death's arms so gladly.
And those words kept
me from giving up.
They made me want to hold
onto any chance there was
to keep living,
no matter how small.
I give you my thanks.
Well, that's good to hear.
I'm glad that I managed
to get through to you...
Only... Our fight is
just getting started here.
So why don't you try thanking
me again after we've won it?
Amy... You wanna
wrap this up soon?
Leona: I'd like to explain
the spell if you don't mind.
Right! I'm so sorry,
Your Highness.
Amy...
All right, everybody
put on your Insignias.
Leona: Kaglimmer is already
a powerful Purification
Spell by itself...
but with the Mysticite in
our pendants activated and
placed at five points around
this circle of enchantment,
the spell's abilities
will be amplified.
If everything goes as planned,
it should create enough
magical energy to take down
the protective field
surrounding Vearn Palace.
Once it's down,
we'll be able to get inside and
stop Vearn once and for all.
So, what do we do next?
Is there like a
chant or something?
You can leave casting
the spell to me.
Meanwhile, all the rest
of you need to do is
unleash the power in
your soul, one at a time.
And after that,
the light produced
by each of our Insignias
is going to fuse together
and form a pillar that will
stretch all the way
up to the palace gate.
A pillar of light, huh?
You've got it.
Now, everyone
join hands - us first.
Leona: When it's your
turn, clear your mind,
focus on your intention,
then pass that
energy onto the next.
Popp [thought]: Great...
That means I'm last.
Popp: Umm... What if...
And I'm just asking, here...
But say one of us can't
get our Insignia to glow...
Uh, what would happen then?
Really?
Are you trying to jinx this?
Don't say stuff like that.
If we can't summon
all five lights,
then the Kaglimmer will only
be using my Magic Power...
And it probably won't be
strong enough, in that case.
Got it.
It's okay. I think
we're all a little nervous.
She's right. None of us
have done this before...
But worrying won't change that.
Empty your mind.
Yeah, I said I got it.
Thank you.
Come on, let's do this thing!
[roaring]
Northern Grand Blade!
Nova: These things aren't
so tough. Not in this state.
Crocodine: Howling Inferno!
Nova: Hey, Crocodine!
Crocodine: Ah, Nova.
They go down easy, don't they?
Yeah, we'll be through
the rest in no time.
[roaring]
Now! Flatten him, troops!
So, did somebody take
down Mystvearn already?
I haven't seen him in a while.
Not yet.
He's up there - flashes
by every now and then.
Those two are on
a whole other level.
Lon's quite impressive.
Oh, great holy light...
With thy blessed strength...
Please help us to drive
away the shadow of evil.
Oh, wow... There really
is a pillar of light.
Now, your turn, Dai.
Here goes.
Focus my intention...
And pass along the energy...
Leona: Relax.
You don't need to
push yourself like that.
Just breathe
and empty your mind.
Leona: It's not the
kind of thing you can force.
Oh... It worked!
I really did it!
Hey, that wasn't so hard.
So, the power
of my soul is blue!
That's right.
Cool. Right.
You're next, Hyunckel.
[roaring]
Lon Beruk [thought]:
Well, we're evenly matched.
At least that means I
can hold him in a stalemate.
Mystvearn [thought]: What...
What are those
pillars of light?
They must be trying
to breach the palace.
Not on my watch.
Lon Beruk: You're staying
right here, Mystvearn.
Popp [thought]:
This is it... my turn.
As long as I'm
still standing,
you're stuck sparring
with me - like it or not.
I won't allow you
to interfere with them.
Mystvearn: [chuckling]
Time has turned
you into a fool.
Do you really believe
that just holding me at bay
is going to give these
pathetic humans a chance?
Of course.
Why else would you
be getting so chatty?
Especially if you were forbidden
to let me hear your voice.
Mystvearn: Hearing my voice
will be of no consequence,
and your skill with a sword
won't save you
from what's coming.
You weren't the only one
playing a distraction.
Mystvearn: You chose
the wrong side.
Now, you'll perish with them.
W-What is that?!
Zaboera: [devious cackle]
There's no mistaking
that laugh...
Zaboera. The Mystic
Bishop shows his face.
You're behind the times.
I've been promoted to High
Commander of the Dark Army.
Years of humiliating labor can
yield very satisfying rewards.
Crocodine: Whatever your title,
it's far too late to turn
the tide of this battle.
Now, why don't you
come down here and
let me reap a "satisfying
reward" of my own?
Mystvearn: Zaboera, this is your
chance to prove your loyalty.
Do as we planned, and
wipe out these humans...
Without mercy.
It would be my pleasure...
Commander Mystvearn.
Bang!
This is not good...
What are those things?!
Zaboera: [chuckling]
I call them Magic Capsules-
my own variation of
the Magic Cylinder...
They're quite a marvel.
Each one is able to
contain dozens of monsters.
What?!
Zaboera: And speaking
of marvels...
I've loaded these
with terrifying creatures-
the likes of which
you've never seen before.
You mean...
Zaboera: I do... And now
you're all finished.
Oh, no...
Now, Popp! Hurry!
R-Right.
Pop [thought]:
Help me out here, Gods.
[roaring]
Behold, my terrifying
beasts of the Underworld.
Gush!
[straining]
Uh, Popp?
Come on...
[straining]
What's happening? Let's go.
I knew it...
I knew.... this
wouldn't work...
Popp: I can't...
I can't do it.
Narrator: Having failed
to set his Insignia alight,
Popp's worst nightmare
has come to pass...
And as Zaboera's horde of
Underworld monsters descends,
the battle of Lori Valley
threatens to turn against
Queen Flora's army.
With time running out and
his friends counting on him,
can Popp overcome his doubts and
unleash the power of his soul?
Find out next time on
Dragon Quest:
the Adventure of Dai,
"The Peril of the
Great Purification Spell".